Rani Durgavati was well known by her battlefield skills. This image displays the epic battle of Gondwana between the gonds and the Mughals.
The Gonds were a smaller tribe that were often referred to as the lower cast and despised by the rest because they were considered outsiders.
Akbar had seen the potential of the land of Gondwana and wanted it conquered in any cost.
He sent his trusted military lead hand Asif Khan to pursue his wishes.
Rani Durgavati’s army was much smaller compared to the Mughal army.
Rani’s army only consisted of 20,000 soldiers fighting on horse and about 1,000 elephants where as the Mughal army had extraordinary numbers of men ready to fight.
Rani Durgavati had been training for warfare since she was a child.
She was well versed in horse riding, sword fighting and anarchy.
However her favourite way to enter into the battlefield was on her elephant.
Rani loved her elephant he was one of the quickest and bravest animals she had ever owned.
She lovingly named her elephant Sarman. Sarman was a Hindi word for protection.
Rani durgavati also had a right hand and his name was Adhar.
Adhar advised Rani not to fight in this battle but she refused to listen to him and continued to prepare for this battle.
She told him “either she would fall or conquer.” There was no other option for her.
She decorated herself in her amour and told her men to advance and not to hesitate in anyway.
The battle went until nightfall and many of the soldiers from both sides were killed off.
Rani told her army that she wanted to finish this war off before the sun rose and not many people agreed with her.
This scene shows how the life of the heroic Rani Durgavati came to a halting end in the battle of Gondwana.
Rani had predicted that as soon as the sun would rise that Asaf Khan would make his move and that's exactly what happened.
Rani had less than 300 men by her side and still was vigorously trying to fight.
Out of nowhere an arrow came and struck her in the right temple and without any hesitation or even a drop of fear she bravely pulled out the arrow and threw it on to the ground.
As soon as she finished pulling the arrow out another one came and hit her in the neck she once again tried to pull that arrow out but this time she was aching in pain.
Rani durgavati called for Adhar and told him to take her dagger and to stab her with it.
Adhar was confused and didn't know what to say.
She explained to him that “she would rather kill herself than die at the hands of the enemy.”
Adhar told her that he couldn't kill her because she was the same person who he respected and adored.
Rani Durgavati was enraged after hearing this.
She was so mad that she grabbed her own dagger and stabbed herself with it.